# 救济金发放

## 题目
In a serious attempt to downsize (reduce) the dole queue, The New National Green Labour Rhinoceros Party has decided on the following strategy. Every day all dole applicants will be placed in a large circle, facing inwards. Someone is arbitrarily chosen as number 1, and the rest are numbered counter-clockwise up to N (who will be standing on 1's left). Starting from 1 and moving counter-clockwise, one labour official counts off k applicants, while another official starts from N and moves clockwise, counting m applicants. The two who are chosen are then sent off for retraining; if both officials pick the same person she (he) is sent off to become a politician. Each official then starts counting again at the next available person and the process continues until no-one is left. Note that the two victims (sorry, trainees) leave the ring simultaneously, so it is possible for one official to count a person already selected by the other official.

Input

Write a program that will successively read in (in that order) the three numbers (N, k and m; k, m > 0, 0 < N < 20) and determine the order in which the applicants are sent off for retraining. Each set of three numbers will be on a separate line and the end of data will be signalled by three zeroes (0 0 0).

Output

For each triplet, output a single line of numbers specifying the order in which people are chosen. Each number should be in a field of 3 characters. For pairs of numbers list the person chosen by the counter-clockwise official first. Separate successive pairs (or singletons) by commas (but there should not be a trailing comma).



#### 样例输入：
```
10 4 3
0 0 0
```
#### 样例输出:
```
 4  8,  9  5,  3  1,  2  6,  10,  7
```

## 题意
n（n < 20）个人站成一圈，逆时针编号为1~n，有两个官员，A从1开始逆时针数，B从n开始顺时针数，在 **每一轮** 中，官员A数k个就停下来，官员B数m个就停下来
（注意有可能两个官员停在同一个人身上）。接下来被官员选中的人（1个或者两个）离开队伍

输入n，k，m输出每轮里被选中的人的编号，如果有两个人，先输出被A选中的，在输出B选中的， 输出的每个数应当恰好占3列。

------

## 分析

这是一道常规的暴力模拟题，

**首先**， 明确这是一个环的问题。有两种思路，一是用链表模拟，二则是用数组模拟。链表模拟思路更简明，这里采用数组模拟的方法。数组模拟要求在坐标越界时更改坐标位置。

**其次**， 明确顺时针和逆时针的区别，即+1和-1。

**再者**， 明确如何处理走出来的人，这里采用紫书的做法，走出即归为0。

## 源代码

```cpp
#include<cstdio>

#define maxn 25

int n, k, m, queue[maxn];

int go(int pos, int pace, int dis){
	
	while(dis){				//循环走一步的过程 
		
		do{					//跨过每一个走掉的人的位置 
			pos += pace;
			if(pos > n)		//形成环 
				pos -= n;
			if(pos < 1)		//形成环 
				pos += n; 
		}while(queue[pos] == 0);
		dis--;				//走完一步 

	}
	
	return pos;
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[]){
	
	while(3 == scanf("%d%d%d", &n, &k, &m) && n){ 
		
		int left = n;
		int pos1 = 0, pos2 = n+1;
		for(int i = 1; i <= n; i++)			//初始化编号 
			queue[i] = i;
		while(left){						//若环中还有人，则循环继续 
			pos1 = go(pos1, 1, k);			//官员数到下一个目标人员 
			pos2 = go(pos2, -1, m);
			if(pos1 == pos2){				//两个官员数的位置相同 
				left--;
				printf("%3d", queue[pos1]);
				queue[pos1] = 0;			//目标人员走出来 
			}else{							//两个官员数的位置不同
				left -= 2;					 
				printf("%3d%3d", queue[pos1], queue[pos2]);
				queue[pos1] = 0;			//目标人员走出来 
				queue[pos2] = 0;
			}
			if(left)
				printf(",");

		}
		printf("\n"); 
	}
	
	return 0;
}

```
